# S3 and Glacier

 - Glacier supports archives as large as 40 TB, whereas S3 buckets have no size limit.
 - Glacier [archives](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonglacier/latest/dev/amazon-glacier-data-model.html) are encrypted by default, whereas encryption on S3 is an option you need to select.
 - Unlike S3’s “human-readable” key names, Glacier archives are given machine-generated IDs.

The biggest difference is the time it takes to retrieve your data. Retrieving the objects from an existing Glacier archive can take a number of hours. You can specify one of the following when initiating a job to retrieve an archive based on your access time and cost requirements:  

- **Expedited** - data accessed using Expedited retrievals are typically made available within 1–5 minutes
- **Standard** - Standard retrievals typically complete within 3–5 hours.
- **Bulk** - Bulk retrievals typically complete within 5–12 hours.

Read More 

- [Downloading an Archive](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/amazonglacier/latest/dev/downloading-an-archive-two-steps.html)

### S3 Select & Glacier Select

[Amazon S3 Select](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/selecting-content-from-objects.html) works on objects stored in CSV, JSON, or Apache Parquet format. It also works with objects that are compressed with GZIP or BZIP2 (for CSV and JSON objects only), and server-side encrypted objects. 

**Amazon Athena** and **Amazon Redshift Spectrum** also runs SQL queries directly against data at rest in Amazon S3.

### S3 Lifycycle

Amazon S3 supports a bucket lifecycle rule `AbortIncompleteMultipartUpload` that you can use to direct Amazon S3 to abort incomplete multipart uploads.

Read More

- [Configuring a bucket lifecycle policy to abort incomplete multipart uploads](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/mpu-abort-incomplete-mpu-lifecycle-config.html)

### Restore archieved objects.

Archived objects are not accessible in real time. You must first initiate a restore request and then wait until a temporary copy of the object is available for the duration that you specify in the request. 

After you receive a temporary copy of the restored object, the object's storage class remains S3 Glacier or S3 Glacier Deep Archive. 

You can then create a copy of the restored objects and store in other storage class such as S3 standard storage.

### S3 Object Lock

Even with bucket versioning enabled, you are still be able to remove a object version by `DELETE object <version>`.

With [S3 Object Lock](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/object-lock.html), it helps prevent objects from being deleted or overwritten for a fixed amount of time or indefinitely

Read More

- [Amazon S3 Features](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/features/#amazon-glacier-select)

###  S3 Range GET?
